Build Pathology HoVerNet Model Zoo Bundle (#245)
Project-MONAI/model-zoo: models/pathology_nuclei_segmentation_classification/docs/README.md

# Model Overview
A pre-trained model for simultaneous segmentation and classification of nuclei within multitissue histology images based on CoNSeP data. The details of the model can be found in [1]

## Workflow

The model is trained to simultaneous segment and classify nuclei. Training is done via a two-stage approach. First initialised the model with pre-trained weights on the [ImageNet dataset](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5206848), trained only the decoders for the first 50 epochs, and then fine-tuned all layers for another 50 epochs.

- Each user is responsible for checking the content of models/datasets and the applicable licenses and determining if suitable for the intended use.The license for the pre-trained model used in examples is different than MONAI license. Please check the source where these weights are obtained from: https://github.com/vqdang/hover_net#data-format

> pretrained_model = "https://drive.google.com/u/1/uc?id=1KntZge40tAHgyXmHYVqZZ5d2p_4Qr2l5&export=download"

Reviewer: HI @KumoLiu , I suggest to rewrite this line since it should be a sentence rather than a line of python code in readme, thanks!

Author: Thanks, @yiheng-wang-nv, I have rewritten it in https://github.com/Project-MONAI/model-zoo/pull/245/commits/ec8b93437c931018287a9b4b8e6a6d0670901b1f.

![Model workflow](https://ars.els-cdn.com/content/image/1-s2.0-S1361841519301045-fx1_lrg.jpg)

## Data

> The training data is from https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/tia/data/hovernet/.

Reviewer: we need a `data_license.txt` in `docs`. Please take: https://github.com/Project-MONAI/model-zoo/blob/dev/models/pathology_tumor_detection/docs/data_license.txt for reference.

Author: The license of CoNSeP dataset is Apache2.0, the same as the bundle, do we still need to add the `data_license.txt` file?

Reviewer: I think it is needed since apache 2.0 is also a license. You can do sth like: https://github.com/Project-MONAI/model-zoo/blob/dev/models/spleen_ct_segmentation/docs/data_license.txt

- Target: segment instance-level nuclei and classify the nuclei type
- Task: Segmentation and classification
- Modality: RGB images
- Size: 41 image tiles (2009 patches)

The provided labelled data was partitioned, based on the original split, into training (27 tiles) and testing (14 tiles) datasets.

After download the datasets, please run `scripts/prepare_patches.py` to prepare patches from tiles. Prepared patches are saved in `your-concep-dataset-path`/Prepared. The implementation is referring to https://github.com/vqdang/hover_net/blob/master/extract_patches.py. The command is like:

```
python scripts/prepare_patches.py -root your-concep-dataset-path
```

## Training configuration

This model utilized a two-stage approach. The training was performed with the following:

- GPU: At least 24GB of GPU memory.
- Actual Model Input: 270 x 270
- AMP: True
- Optimizer: Adam
- Learning Rate: 1e-4
- Loss: HoVerNetLoss

## Input

Input: RGB images

> 1. Randomly performing rotate, scale, shear, translate, etc

Reviewer: I'm not sure but it seems in the readme file, there is no need to describe the preprocessing and augmentation methods (they are already in configs). During @zephyrie 's last round of review, similar descriptions in other bundles are removed (see: https://github.com/Project-MONAI/model-zoo/pull/233/files#diff-21a8c44891c2467d971a975c73d4488b87963f0366b003847fea6d959c4521adL43)

Hi @Nic-Ma , could you please help to double confirm it? Thanks!

Reviewer 2: @Nic-Ma can you clarify this with @KumoLiu please? Thanks

Reviewer 3: @KumoLiu Please update according to the comments, thanks.

Author: Have removed it, thanks!

2. Cropping images to (270, 270)
3. Randomly spatial flipping
4. Randomly choosing one transform to smooth images
5. Randomly adjusting brightness, saturation, contrast and hue
6. Scaleing intensity to [0, 1]
7. Generating horizontal and vertical distance maps from label instance map

## Output

> Output: a dictionary

Reviewer: a dictionary with the following keys:
1. nucleus_prediction: ...
2. ...
3. ...

Author: Have updated it, thanks!

- nucleus_prediction: predict whether or not a pixel belongs to the nuclei or background
- horizontal_vertical: predict the horizontal and vertical distances of nuclear pixels to their centres of mass
- type_prediction: predict the type of nucleus for each pixel

## Model Performance

The achieved metrics on the validation data are:
- Binary Dice: 0.82762
- PQ: 0.48976
- F1d: 0.73592

#### Training Loss and Dice

stage1:

> ![A graph showing the training loss and the mean dice over 50 epochs in stage1](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sc0ZqKWmphZbhHxKu-UredYriFtUFlbk/view?usp=sharing)

Reviewer: It seems this way cannot produce a figure in the readme file.
see: https://github.com/Project-MONAI/model-zoo/blob/d8317ab6badeadb3ed94955db2d6d5f22aa6ad3e/models/pathology_nuclei_segmentation_classification/docs/README.md#training-loss-and-dice

Author: Yes, I will update it once I get the correct links.

Author: Have updated it, thanks!

```

- Run second stage

```
torchrun --standalone --nnodes=1 --nproc_per_node=2 -m monai.bundle run training --meta_file configs/metadata.json --config_file "['configs/train.json','configs/multi_gpu_train.json']" --logging_file configs/logging.conf --train#dataloader#batch_size 4 --network_def#freeze_encoder false --network_def#pretrained_url None --stage 1
```

Override the `train` config to execute evaluation with the trained model:

```
python -m monai.bundle run evaluating --meta_file configs/metadata.json --config_file "['configs/train.json','configs/evaluate.json']" --logging_file configs/logging.conf
```

### Execute inference

```
python -m monai.bundle run evaluating --meta_file configs/metadata.json --config_file configs/inference.json --logging_file configs/logging.conf
```

# Disclaimer

This is an example, not to be used for diagnostic purposes.

# References

> 

Reviewer: Hi @KumoLiu , could you add a License section in the readme file? You can refer to any other bundles.

Author: Have added, thanks!

## Workflow

> The model is trained to simultaneous segment and classify nuclei. Training is done via a two-stage approach. First initialized the model with pre-trained weights on the [ImageNet dataset](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5206848), trained only the decoders for the first 50 epochs, and then fine-tuned all layers for another 50 epochs. There are two training modes in total. If "original" mode is specified, using [270, 270] and [80, 80] for `patch_size` and `out_size` respectively. If "fast" mode is specified, using [256, 256] and [164, 164] for `patch_size` and `out_size` respectively. The results we show below are based on the "fast" model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The model is trained to simultaneous segment and classify nuclei. Training is done via a two-stage approach. First initialized the model with pre-trained weights on the [ImageNet dataset](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5206848), trained only the decoders for the first 50 epochs, and then fine-tuned all layers for another 50 epochs. There are two training modes in total. If "original" mode is specified, it uses [270, 270] and [80, 80] for `patch_size` and `out_size` respectively. If "fast" mode is specified, it uses [256, 256] and [164, 164] for `patch_size` and `out_size` respectively. The results we show below are based on the "fast" model.
```

The achieved metrics on the validation data are:

Fast mode:
- Binary Dice: 0.83285
- PQ: 0.49765

> - F1d: 0.74214

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Binary Dice: 0.8329
- PQ: 0.4977
- F1d: 0.7421
```
